### 1. Install Apptainer
Make sure that your Linux system has **Apptainer** installed and set up. Instructions for Ubuntu are given below. For any other distro, please refer to the official [Apptainer Installation Guide](https://apptainer.org/docs/admin/main/installation.html).

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:apptainer/ppa
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y apptainer
```

### 2. Download the SDK
Download the SDK from the official link provided. It should be in a .tar.gz format.
SDK Official Download Link: [Cerebras SDK Download](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/2lgy7q7rwg366wf9m9r1l/Cerebras-SDK-1.4.0-202505230211-4-d9070058.tar.gz?rlkey=fk8egs6dop9n3prrgnmz5ji6u&st=fx1rehni&dl=0)

### 3. Extract the Files
To extract the SDK contents, follow the steps below.

- Set Environment Variables First, set the following environment variables:
`SDK_INSTALL_LOCATION` : The location where you want to install the Cerebras SDK. This can be any (writable) directory.
Note: `SDK_INSTALL_LOCATION` and `SDK_TAR_PATH` should be absolute paths.

```bash
SDK_INSTALL_LOCATION=Cerebras_SDK
SDK_INSTALL_PATH=$SDK_INSTALL_LOCATION/cs_sdk
SDK_TAR_PATH=/path/to/Cerebras-SDK-1.4.0-{build id}.tar.gz
```

- Run extraction commands: Create the directory where you will install the Cerebras SDK, and extract the files from the downloaded tar file into that directory.

```bash
mkdir -p $SDK_INSTALL_PATH
tar -C $SDK_INSTALL_PATH -xvf $SDK_TAR_PATH
```

### 4. Extracted Files Overview
Verify that the following files are present in the $SDK_INSTALL_PATH directory:

- `sdk-cbcore-{build id}.sif`: This is the SDK software. This file is about 3GB.

- `cerebras-software-eula.pdf`: This is the End User License Agreement.

- `csdb`: This is a script for running hardware debug tools.

- `cslc`: This is a script for running the CSL compiler.

- `cs_python`: This is a script for running Python code using the version of Python provided in the .sif.

- `cs_readelf`: This is a script for running a Cerebras alternative to readelf.

- `sdk_debug_shell`: This is a script for running simulation debug tools, including the smoke test and the SDK GUI.

- `sdk-gui-LICENSE.txt`: This is the license for the GUI tool included.

- `csl-extras-{build id}.tar.gz`: This is a tarball containing example programs and additional extras.

- `examples/`: This is a folder containing SDK example programs, including tutorials.

- `syntax_highlight/`: This is a folder containing a CSL syntax highlighter for vi/vim and VS Code IDE.

### 5. Installing the SDK Software
Continue with the below steps to install the SDK software.

- Add the Cerebras SDK to your PATH.
```bash
$ PATH_CMD='export PATH=/home/scitest/Cerebras_SDK/cs_sdk:$PATH'
$ eval $PATH_CMD
$ echo $PATH_CMD >> ~/.bashrc
$ source ~/.bashrc
```

- Might have to give permission to user to the directory
```bash
$ sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /home/scitest/SCI2025_CerebrasWSE_HaloEx-main
```

- Verify the installation by calling the compiler.
```bash
$ cslc
```
If you see the following output, the installation was successful:
```[INFO] === Beginning compilation ===
[INFO] Using SIF: /Users/amartya/Cerebras_SDK_1.4/sdk-cbcore-202505230211-4-9382352f.sif
[INFO] CSL_IMPORT_PATH is not set
[INFO] CSL_IMPORT_PATH accepts colon separated list of paths generated by 'realpath <path>'
usage: cslc [-h] [-o OUTPUT_NAME] [--params PARAMS] [--colors COLORS] [--memcpy] [--channels CHANNELS] [--import-path IMPORT_PATH] [--width-west-buf WIDTH_WEST_BUF] [--width-east-buf WIDTH_EAST_BUF] [--verbose]
            csl_filename
cslc: error: the following arguments are required: csl_filename
```
